---
title: Hello, World!
description: How and why I created a minimalist personal website
date: 2025-01-01
author: Pablo Reyes Moctezuma
tags: ["test", "post"]
---

# Hello, World!

It had been quite a while since I wanted to havea space on the internet that I could call my own, where I could share my thoughts, projects, and anything else that inspired me. More recently, I realized it was time to stop being just another anonymous entity online and start building a personal brand (because, well, that’s 21st-century networking for you). So, I decided to create this website.

My goal was simple: build something quick, lightweight, and easy to maintain but with room to grow. Aesthetically, I’ve been drawn to brutalism for a while now. When I stumbled upon web brutalism —a design philosophy that prioritizes raw, unpolished content over ornamental form— it immediately clicked. Web brutalism relies on "raw materials", like `<hr/>`, `<a>`, or `<div>` elements with little to none CSS styling, so they are more "close" to their intended functionality. This approach aligns perfectly with my desire for simplicity and authenticity.

## Why I Chose Astro

Although a true brutalist (and minimalist) might have stuck with pure CSS and HTML, I wanted a set of tools to balance simplicity with efficiency. Enter [Astro](https://astro.build/), an all-in-one web framework for building content-driven websites. Astro ticket all the boxes for me:
* It renders to pure HTML and CSS on the server, with zero Javascript by default. 
* It allows developers to build reusable, HTML-based components.
* It includes a set of built-in tools to handle content-rich assets, like markdown files. In fact, this entry exists as a markdown file in my project —simple, readable, and easy to edit.

Astro’s features gave me the flexibility I needed to create a site that stayed true to my need of a simple and lightweight website, while still being practical and future-proof.

## Key Features of my First Release

Now, allow me to highlight some of the features of my website.

* **It's super lightweight:** the average file size of the rendered website (i.e., the contents of the `./dist` directory generated by Astro after running `astro build`) is just 5.39933 kB (uncompressed). 
* **Minimal CSS and no custom fonts:** There are only 190 lines of CSS code in the project, mainly for adjusting the page layout, text size and spacing on headers and lists. Even the `<hr/>` and `<a>` elements have been styled minimally. As for fonts, there are no embedded custom fonts—meaning the site relies on system fonts, which vary from device to device. Fun fact: the average Google Font file is 19.75 kB, more than 3 times the average size of my website's assets.[^1]

## A Roadmap for the Future

This website is not finished (and probably, it will never be). I want this project to be a small playground where I can experiment with new design ideas, programming languages, or even infrastructure. Here are some key features that I will plan to implement in 2025:

* **A carbon free website**: I'm fascinated by [the idea of a low-tech, solar-powered website](https://solar.lowtechmagazine.com/about/the-solar-website/) proposed by LOW←TECH MAGAZINE.[^2] In the future, I want to serve this website from a solar-powered computer at home. It would be exciting to know that my digital footprint is at least partially carbon-free.
* **Multilingual support**: As a native Spanish speaker, I pragmatically chose to release the first version of my website in English to reach a broader audience. However, I’d love to share content, especially coding tutorials and guides, in Spanish. While Astro makes this implementation straightforward, creating bilingual content will be a labor-intensive process.
* **Dithered Images**: Again drawing inspiration from LOW←TECH MAGAZINE,[^3] I want to feature images processed with a dithering algorithm to reduce their size while maintaining a unique aesthetic. Although I’d love to integrate this into Astro’s build process eventually, I’ll likely start by manually dithering each image.

## Final Thoughts

This website represents my take on combining minimalism with practicality. It’s a space I’ve created to reflect my ideas, free from unnecessary clutter, but equipped with the tools to make maintenance a breeze. I hope you enjoy exploring it as much as I enjoyed creating it.


[^1]: Stoyan Stefanov. “How Many Bytes Is ‘Normal’ for a Web Font: A Study Using Google Fonts.” phpied.com, n.d. https://www.phpied.com/bytes-normal-web-font-study-google-fonts/.

[^2]: Kris De Decker, “About the Solar Powered Website,” LOW←TECH MAGAZINE, n.d., https://solar.lowtechmagazine.com/about/the-solar-website

[^3]: Kris De Decker, _Op. cit._.